docs/source/interactive/python-ipython-diff.rst, before:

=================
Python vs IPython
=================

This document is meant to highlight the main differences between the Python
language and what are the specific constructs you can do only in IPython.

Unless expressed otherwise all of the constructs you will see here will raise a
``SyntaxError`` if run in a pure Python shell, or if executing in a Python
script.

Each of these features is described more in detail in the further parts of the documentation.


Quick overview:
===============


All the following constructs are valid IPython syntax:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: ?

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: ?object


.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: object?

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: *pattern*?

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: %shell like --syntax

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: !ls

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: my_files = !ls ~/
    In [1]: for i, file in enumerate(my_files):
       ...:     raw = !echo $file
       ...:     !echo {file[0].upper()} $raw


.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: %%perl magic --function
       ...: @months = ("July", "August", "September");
       ...: print $months[0];


Each of these constructs is compiled by IPython into valid python code and will
do most of the time what you expect it will do. Let's see each of these examples
in more detail.


Accessing help
==============

As IPython is mostly an interactive shell, the question mark is a simple
shortcut to get help. A question mark alone will bring up the IPython help:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: ?

    IPython -- An enhanced Interactive Python
    =========================================

    IPython offers a combination of convenient shell features, special commands
    and a history mechanism for both input (command history) and output (results
    caching, similar to Mathematica). It is intended to be a fully compatible
    replacement for the standard Python interpreter, while offering vastly
    improved functionality and flexibility.

    At your system command line, type 'ipython -h' to see the command line
    options available. This document only describes interactive features.

    MAIN FEATURES
    -------------
    ...

A single question mark before or after an object available in the current
namespace will show help relative to this object:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [6]: object?
    Docstring: The most base type
    Type:      type


A double question mark will try to pull out more information about the object,
and if possible display the python source code of this object.

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: import collections
    In[2]: collections.Counter??

    Init signature: collections.Counter(*args, **kwds)
    Source:
    class Counter(dict):
        '''Dict subclass for counting hashable items.  Sometimes called a bag
        or multiset.  Elements are stored as dictionary keys and their counts
        are stored as dictionary values.

        >>> c = Counter('abcdeabcdabcaba')  # count elements from a string

        >>> c.most_common(3)                # three most common elements
        [('a', 5), ('b', 4), ('c', 3)]
        >>> sorted(c)                       # list all unique elements
        ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e']
        >>> ''.join(sorted(c.elements()))   # list elements with repetitions
        'aaaaabbbbcccdde'
        ...



If you are looking for an object, the use of wildcards ``*`` in conjunction
with a question mark will allow you to search the current namespace for objects with
matching names:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [24]: *int*?
    FloatingPointError
    int
    print


Shell Assignment
================


When doing interactive computing it is a common need to access the underlying shell.
This is doable through the use of the exclamation mark ``!`` (or bang).

This allows to execute simple commands when present in beginning of the line:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: !pwd
    /User/home/

Change directory:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: !cd /var/etc

Or edit file:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: !mvim myfile.txt


The line after the bang can call any program installed in the underlying
shell, and support variable expansion in the form of ``$variable`` or ``{variable}``.
The later form of expansion supports arbitrary python expressions:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: file = 'myfile.txt'

    In[2]: !mv $file {file.upper()}


The bang (``!``) can also be present on the right hand side of an assignment, just
after the equal sign, or separated from it by a white space. In this case the
standard output of the command after the bang will be split out into lines
in a list-like object and assigned to the left hand side.

This allows you, for example, to put the list of files of the current working directory in a variable:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: my_files = !ls


You can combine the different possibilities in for loops, conditions, functions...:

.. code-block:: ipython

    my_files = !ls ~/
    for i, file in enumerate(my_files):
        raw = !echo $backup $file
        !cp $file {file.split('.')[0] + '.bak'}


Magics
------

Magic functions (magics) are often present in the form of shell-like syntax, but they are
python functions under the hood. The syntax and assignment possibilities are
similar to the one with the bang (``!``) syntax, but with more flexibility and
power. Magic functions start with a percent sign (``%``) or double percent signs (``%%``).

A magic call with a single percent sign will act only on one line:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: %xmode
    Exception reporting mode: Verbose

Magics support assignment:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: results = %timeit -r1 -n1 -o list(range(1000))
    62.1 µs ± 0 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 1 run, 1 loop each)

    In [2]: results
    <TimeitResult : 62.1 µs ± 0 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 1 run, 1 loop each)>

Magics with double percent signs (``%%``) can spread over multiple lines, but they do not support assignments:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: %%bash
    ...  : echo "My shell is:" $SHELL
    ...  : echo "My disk usage is:"
    ...  : df -h
    My shell is: /usr/local/bin/bash
    My disk usage is:
    Filesystem      Size   Used  Avail Capacity  iused   ifree %iused  Mounted on
    /dev/disk1     233Gi  216Gi   16Gi    94% 56788108 4190706   93%   /
    devfs          190Ki  190Ki    0Bi   100%      656       0  100%   /dev
    map -hosts       0Bi    0Bi    0Bi   100%        0       0  100%   /net
    map auto_home    0Bi    0Bi    0Bi   100%        0       0  100%   /hom

Commit message:

Python vs IPython: recommend %cd, %env over !cd, !export
The quick overview mentioned `!cd DIR` among examples of shell 
commands one might use —but that doesn't work as user would hope
(can only affect commands in same ! e.g. `!cd /; pwd`).

That's not as bad now that `!cd` prints a warning, 
but IMHO better to provide the right mental model up front.

=> Replaced that with minimal motivation why `!cd` and `!export` can't work,
recommending some %magic alternatives;
moved it out of examples to not distract, and right before Magics section.

docs/source/interactive/python-ipython-diff.rst, after:

=================
Python vs IPython
=================

This document is meant to highlight the main differences between the Python
language and what are the specific constructs you can do only in IPython.

Unless expressed otherwise all of the constructs you will see here will raise a
``SyntaxError`` if run in a pure Python shell, or if executing in a Python
script.

Each of these features is described more in detail in the further parts of the documentation.


Quick overview:
===============


All the following constructs are valid IPython syntax:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: ?

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: ?object


.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: object?

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: *pattern*?

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: %shell like --syntax

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: !ls

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: my_files = !ls ~/
    In [1]: for i, file in enumerate(my_files):
       ...:     raw = !echo $file
       ...:     !echo {file[0].upper()} $raw


.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: %%perl magic --function
       ...: @months = ("July", "August", "September");
       ...: print $months[0];


Each of these constructs is compiled by IPython into valid python code and will
do most of the time what you expect it will do. Let's see each of these examples
in more detail.


Accessing help
==============

As IPython is mostly an interactive shell, the question mark is a simple
shortcut to get help. A question mark alone will bring up the IPython help:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: ?

    IPython -- An enhanced Interactive Python
    =========================================

    IPython offers a combination of convenient shell features, special commands
    and a history mechanism for both input (command history) and output (results
    caching, similar to Mathematica). It is intended to be a fully compatible
    replacement for the standard Python interpreter, while offering vastly
    improved functionality and flexibility.

    At your system command line, type 'ipython -h' to see the command line
    options available. This document only describes interactive features.

    MAIN FEATURES
    -------------
    ...

A single question mark before or after an object available in the current
namespace will show help relative to this object:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [6]: object?
    Docstring: The most base type
    Type:      type


A double question mark will try to pull out more information about the object,
and if possible display the python source code of this object.

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: import collections
    In[2]: collections.Counter??

    Init signature: collections.Counter(*args, **kwds)
    Source:
    class Counter(dict):
        '''Dict subclass for counting hashable items.  Sometimes called a bag
        or multiset.  Elements are stored as dictionary keys and their counts
        are stored as dictionary values.

        >>> c = Counter('abcdeabcdabcaba')  # count elements from a string

        >>> c.most_common(3)                # three most common elements
        [('a', 5), ('b', 4), ('c', 3)]
        >>> sorted(c)                       # list all unique elements
        ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e']
        >>> ''.join(sorted(c.elements()))   # list elements with repetitions
        'aaaaabbbbcccdde'
        ...



If you are looking for an object, the use of wildcards ``*`` in conjunction
with a question mark will allow you to search the current namespace for objects with
matching names:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [24]: *int*?
    FloatingPointError
    int
    print


Shell Assignment
================


When doing interactive computing it is a common need to access the underlying shell.
This is doable through the use of the exclamation mark ``!`` (or bang).

This allows to execute simple commands when present in beginning of the line:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: !pwd
    /User/home/

Edit file:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: !mvim myfile.txt


The line after the bang can call any program installed in the underlying
shell, and support variable expansion in the form of ``$variable`` or ``{variable}``.
The later form of expansion supports arbitrary python expressions:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: file = 'myfile.txt'

    In[2]: !mv $file {file.upper()}


The bang (``!``) can also be present on the right hand side of an assignment, just
after the equal sign, or separated from it by a white space. In this case the
standard output of the command after the bang will be split out into lines
in a list-like object and assigned to the left hand side.

This allows you, for example, to put the list of files of the current working directory in a variable:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: my_files = !ls


You can combine the different possibilities in for loops, conditions, functions...:

.. code-block:: ipython

    my_files = !ls ~/
    for i, file in enumerate(my_files):
        raw = !echo $backup $file
        !cp $file {file.split('.')[0] + '.bak'}


Each ``!`` gets executed in a separate shell, so changing directory by ``!cd`` or env vars ``!export FOO=bar`` will have no effect.
Use instead the built-in magics ``%cd DIR/`` (there are also ``%pushd DIR/``, ``%dirs``, ``%popd``) and ``%env FOO=bar``.


Magics
------

Magic functions (magics) are often present in the form of shell-like syntax, but they are
python functions under the hood. The syntax and assignment possibilities are
similar to the one with the bang (``!``) syntax, but with more flexibility and
power. Magic functions start with a percent sign (``%``) or double percent signs (``%%``).

A magic call with a single percent sign will act only on one line:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: %xmode
    Exception reporting mode: Verbose

Magics support assignment:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In [1]: results = %timeit -r1 -n1 -o list(range(1000))
    62.1 µs ± 0 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 1 run, 1 loop each)

    In [2]: results
    <TimeitResult : 62.1 µs ± 0 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 1 run, 1 loop each)>

Magics with double percent signs (``%%``) can spread over multiple lines, but they do not support assignments:

.. code-block:: ipython

    In[1]: %%bash
    ...  : echo "My shell is:" $SHELL
    ...  : echo "My disk usage is:"
    ...  : df -h
    My shell is: /usr/local/bin/bash
    My disk usage is:
    Filesystem      Size   Used  Avail Capacity  iused   ifree %iused  Mounted on
    /dev/disk1     233Gi  216Gi   16Gi    94% 56788108 4190706   93%   /
    devfs          190Ki  190Ki    0Bi   100%      656       0  100%   /dev
    map -hosts       0Bi    0Bi    0Bi   100%        0       0  100%   /net
    map auto_home    0Bi    0Bi    0Bi   100%        0       0  100%   /hom
