.TH IPCLUSTER 1 "October 28, 2008" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBipcluster \- IPython parallel computing cluster control tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
\fBipcluster\fP {\fmpiexec,local,mpirun,pbs,ssh\fP} [\fIoptions\fP]
.fam T
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
ipcluster is a control tool for IPython's parallel computing functions.

IPython cluster startup. This starts a controller and engines using various
approaches. Use the IPYTHON_DIR environment variable to change your IPython
directory from the default of .ipython or _ipython. The log and security
subdirectories of your IPython directory will be used by this script for log
files and security files.
.SH POSITIONAL ARGUMENTS

The first positional argument should be one of: {mpiexec, local, mpirun, pbs,
ssh}, which are the available cluster types.

For detailed help on each, type "ipcluster TYPE --help". Briefly:

  local         run a local cluster
  mpirun        run a cluster using mpirun (mpiexec also works)
  mpiexec       run a cluster using mpiexec (mpirun also works)
  pbs           run a pbs cluster
  ssh           run a cluster using ssh, should have ssh-keys setup
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B
\-h, \-\-help
show help message and exit
.SH EXAMPLE
ipcluster local -n 4

This command will start 4 IPython engines on the local computer.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipython(1), ipcontroller(1), ipengine(1)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
\fBipcluster\fP is a tool that ships with IPython, created by
the IPython Development Team.
.PP
This manual page was written by Stephan Peijnik <debian@sp.or.at>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).  Modified by Fernando Perez
<Fernando.Perez@berkeley.edu> for inclusion in IPython.
