.TH IPCONTROLLER 1 "October 29, 2008" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBipcontroller \- IPython parallel computing controller control tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
\fBipengine\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.fam T
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
ipcontroller is a control tool for IPython's parallel computing functions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B
\-h, \-\-help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.B
.TP
.B \-\-no-secure
Don't authenticate messages.
.TP
.B \-\-usethreads
Use threads instead of processes for the schedulers
.TP
.B \-\-init
Initialize profile with default config files
.TP
.B \-\-log-to-file
send log output to a file
.TP
.B \-\-reuse
reuse existing json connection files
.TP
.B \-\-mongodb
use the MongoDB backend
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
set log level to logging.CRITICAL (minimize logging output)
.TP
.B \-\-debug
set log level to logging.DEBUG (maximize logging output)
.TP
.B \-\-sqlitedb
use the SQLiteDB backend
.TP
.B \-\-dictdb
use the in-memory DictDB backend
.TP
.B \-\-secure
Use HMAC digests for authentication of messages.
.TP
.B \-\-profile=<Unicode> (BaseIPythonApplication.profile)
Default: u'default'
The IPython profile to use.
.TP
.B \-\-hwm=<Int> (TaskScheduler.hwm)
Default: 0
.br
specify the High Water Mark (HWM) for the downstream socket in the Task
scheduler. This is the maximum number of allowed outstanding tasks on each
engine.
.TP
.B \-\-secure=<Bool> (IPControllerApp.secure)
Default: True
Whether to use HMAC digests for extra message authentication.
.TP
.B \-\-ip=<Unicode> (HubFactory.ip)
Default: '127.0.0.1'
The IP address for registration.  This is generally either '127.0.0.1' for
loopback only or '*' for all interfaces. [default: '127.0.0.1']
.TP
.B \-\-log-url=<Unicode> (BaseParallelApplication.log_url)
Default: ''
The ZMQ URL of the iplogger to aggregate logging.
.TP
.B \-\-work-dir=<Unicode> (BaseParallelApplication.work_dir)
Default: u'/Users/minrk/dev/ip/mine/docs/man'
Set the working dir for the process.
.TP
.B \-\-port=<Int> (HubFactory.regport)
Default: 0
The port on which the Hub listens for registration.
.TP
.B \-\-profile-dir=<Unicode> (ProfileDir.location)
Default: u''
Set the profile location directly. This overrides the logic used by the
`profile` option.
.TP
.B \-\-ident=<CBytes> (Session.session)
Default: ''
The UUID identifying this session.
.TP
.B \-\-log-to-file=<Bool> (BaseParallelApplication.log_to_file)
Default: False
whether to log to a file
.TP
.B \-\-ipython-dir=<Unicode> (BaseIPythonApplication.ipython_dir)
Default: u'/Users/minrk/.ipython'
The name of the IPython directory. This directory is used for logging
configuration (through profiles), history storage, etc. The default is
usually $HOME/.ipython. This options can also be specified through the
environment variable IPYTHON_DIR.
.TP
.B \-\-url=<Unicode> (HubFactory.url)
Default: ''
The 0MQ url used for registration. This sets transport, ip, and port in one
variable. For example: url='tcp://127.0.0.1:12345' or url='epgm://*:90210'
.TP
.B \-\-user=<Unicode> (Session.username)
Default: 'minrk'
Username for the Session. Default is your system username.
.TP
.B \-\-ping=<CFloat> (HeartMonitor.period)
Default: 1000
The frequency at which the Hub pings the engines for heartbeats  (in ms)
.TP
.B \-\-log-level=<Enum> (Application.log_level)
Default: 30
Choices: (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 'DEBUG', 'INFO', 'WARN', 'ERROR', 'CRITICAL')
Set the log level by value or name.
.TP
.B \-\-location=<Unicode> (IPControllerApp.location)
Default: u''
The external IP or domain name of the Controller, used for disambiguating
engine and client connections.
.TP
.B \-\-clean-logs=<Bool> (BaseParallelApplication.clean_logs)
Default: False
whether to cleanup old logfiles before starting
.TP
.B \-\-scheme=<Enum> (TaskScheduler.scheme_name)
Default: 'leastload'
Choices: ('leastload', 'pure', 'lru', 'plainrandom', 'weighted', 'twobin')
select the task scheduler scheme  [default: Python LRU] Options are: 'pure',
'lru', 'plainrandom', 'weighted', 'twobin','leastload'
.TP
.B \-\-keyfile=<Unicode> (Session.keyfile)
Default: ''
path to file containing execution key.
.TP
.B \-\-transport=<Unicode> (HubFactory.transport)
Default: 'tcp'
The 0MQ transport for communications.  This will likely be the default of
'tcp', but other values include 'ipc', 'epgm', 'inproc'.
.TP
.B \-\-ssh=<Unicode> (IPControllerApp.ssh_server)
Default: u''
ssh url for clients to use when connecting to the Controller processes. It
should be of the form: [user@]server[:port]. The Controller's listening
addresses must be accessible from the ssh server
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipython(1), ipcluster(1), ipengine(1)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
\fBipcontroller\fP is a tool that ships with IPython, created by
the IPython Development Team.
.PP
This manual page was written by Stephan Peijnik <debian@sp.or.at>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).  Modified by Fernando Perez
<Fernando.Perez@berkeley.edu> for inclusion in IPython, and updated by
Min Ragan-Kelley <benjaminrk@gmail.com> for 0.11.
